						SERIALIZATATION DESERIALIZATATION

Serialization and deserialization are processes in Java (and in programming in general) that involve converting an object into a byte stream and vice versa. This is particularly useful when you need to transfer or store an object’s state, such as when sending it over a network or persisting it to a file.

Serialization:
	Serialization is the process of converting an object’s state (fields and data) into a byte stream.
	It allows you to save the state of an object, so it can be reconstructed later.
	The Serializable interface in Java is a marker interface that indicates a class can be serialized.

Deserialization:
	Deserialization is the process of reconstructing an object from a byte stream.
	It allows you to recreate the original object from the saved state.

Uses and Real-Time Applications:
	Network Communication:  When objects need to be sent over a network between different applications or systems.
	Persistence:  Storing an object’s state in a file or a database for later retrieval.

->Platform-Independent: In Java, the serialization is a platform-independent process. It means that if we serialize an object using a byte stream on one platform can be easily deserialized on different platforms.
->Serializable Interface: If we want to make a class serializable, then it must implement the Serializable interface. This interface does not contain any methods or variables ( marker interface), but it gives a signal that the class is ready for serialization.

Serialization Process: 
	The byte stream created is platform independent. So, the object serialized on one platform can be deserialized on a different platform. To make a Java object serializable we implement the java.io.Serializable interface. 
	The ObjectOutputStream class contains writeObject() method for serializing an Object.

Deserialization Process: 
	The ObjectInputStream class contains readObject() method for deserializing an object. 
Notes :
	Parent-Child Serialization -> If a parent class has implemented Serializable interface then child class doesn't need to implement it but vice-versa is not true.
	Non-static Data Members -> Only non-static data members are saved via Serialization process. Static variable are not serialized becaue they are not associated with any specific instance. 
	Transient Data Members-> Static data members and transient data members are not saved via Serialization process. So, if you don't want to save value of a non-static data member then make it transient.
Constructor Calling-> Constructor of object is never called when an object is deserialized. 
Associated Objects-> Associated objects must be implementing Serializable interface.
		ex: class Address {}
		     class Person implements serializable{
				String name;
				int age ;
				Address addres; ///--> Associated objest which is not serialozable therefore leads to -->NotSerializableException 
